# Reliable Source

*evaluating information is a skill that requires practice*

see [Finding Sources](Finding%20Sources%208ecdd58f45424ecbbfb9c8d18147c5f4.md)

## Peer-Reviewed Sources

often regarded as highly reliable

### downsides

- mistakes can still slip by
*whenever judgement takes place, mistakes can be overlooked*
- fabricated data is hard to identify
*fabricated data sometimes can only be identified by reproducing an experiment*
- editor biases can have an effect on publication
*journals are more likely to publish an article that agrees with a certain bias*

## CARS method

not a checklist, only a guide on what to consider

### Credibility

> what are the author's qualifications to write on the topic?
has the information been reviewed or referred?
are there spelling, grammatical or other typographical errors?
> 

### Accuracy

> when was the information published or posted?
has the information been updated? (depending on the medium used)
is the information consistent? (try to spot contradictory statements)
> 

### Reasonableness

> does the language or tone seem biased? (should also be free of emotion)
does the author provide a balanced view of the information?
could there be a conflict of interest by the author or organisation?
what is the purpose of the information?
> 

### Support

> where does the information come from? are the references cited reliable?
is the information supported by evidence?
can you verify the information in other sources?
can the references listed by the author be easily located?
> 

## evaluating "hot" topics

*highly active topics in which a lot of research is being done in a small timeframe*

- find information that has been published very recently because information gets outdated fast
- check for biases, since hot topics can increase the chance of exaggerated claims